- :beta:`Stochastic Integration`: Added a pluggable Gaussian noise-generator abstraction (``GaussianNoiseGenerator``) with a random Mersenne-Twister source for production and a prescribed-replay source for tests, shared by all stochastic integrators through the ``StochasticRKIntegratorBase`` base class.
- :beta:`Stochastic Integration`: Added the Roessler strong-order-1.5 stochastic Runge-Kutta integrators :ref:`svStochasticIntegratorSRIW1` and :ref:`svStochasticIntegratorSOSRI` (diagonal/scalar-noise Ito), and :ref:`svStochasticIntegratorSRA1` and :ref:`svStochasticIntegratorSOSRA` (additive-noise Ito). The stability-optimized ``SOSRI``/``SOSRA`` are the recommended strong-order methods.
- :beta:`Stochastic Integration`: Added the strong-order Stratonovich :ref:`svStochasticIntegratorEulerHeun` (Euler-Heun) and the derivative-free strong-order-1.0 :ref:`svStochasticIntegratorRKMil` (Runge-Kutta Milstein, diagonal/scalar noise).
- :beta:`Stochastic Integration`: Added the weak-order-2 Ito integrators :ref:`svStochasticIntegratorDRI1` and its non-mixing variant ``svStochasticIntegratorDRI1NM`` (Debrabant-Roessler), the Roessler ``RI1``/``RI3``/``RI5``/``RI6`` family, and the Tocino & Vigo-Aguiar ``SIEA``/``SMEA``/``SIEB``/``SMEB`` family; plus the weak-order-1 ``svStochasticIntegratorRDI1WM``. ``DRI1`` is the recommended general-purpose weak-order solver and handles non-commutative noise.
- :beta:`Stochastic Integration`: Added the weak-order-2 Stratonovich integrators ``svStochasticIntegratorRS1`` and ``svStochasticIntegratorRS2`` (Roessler), for non-commutative Stratonovich noise.
- :beta:`Stochastic Integration`: Re-implemented :ref:`svStochasticIntegratorW2Ito1` and :ref:`svStochasticIntegratorW2Ito2` (Tang & Xiao weak-order-2) onto the shared noise-generator architecture so they support non-commutative noise and are checked for numerical equivalence against reference trajectories.
- :beta:`Stochastic Integration`: Added the :ref:`bskPrinciples-12` guide explaining what stochastic integration is, the supported methods, and how to choose one (weak vs. strong order, Itô vs Stratonovich, noise structure, and stiffness resilience).
- :beta:`Stochastic Integration`: Added :ref:`inhomogeneousGeometricBrownianMotion`, a MuJoCo dynamics-task base class (importable as ``MJInhomogeneousGeometricBrownianMotion`` for Python subclassing) that models a mean-reverting process with multiplicative noise (IGBM), configured in stationary form (mean, time constant, stationary standard deviation) like :ref:`meanRevertingNoise`. The exact process is positive; it is integrated as written, so consumers that need positivity clamp the derived quantity downstream.
- :beta:`Stochastic Integration`: Added :ref:`igbmAtmDensity` (``MJIgbmAtmDensity``), the multiplicative-noise counterpart to :ref:`stochasticAtmDensity`: it scales atmospheric density by the IGBM factor and clamps the corrected density to be non-negative.
- :beta:`Stochastic Integration`: Added :ref:`igbmNoiseStateEffector`, the multiplicative-noise counterpart to :ref:`meanRevertingNoiseStateEffector`: it propagates an IGBM ``(1 + x)`` density-correction factor for ``spacecraft.Spacecraft`` dynamics, compatible with ``DragDynamicEffector``'s ``densityCorrectionStateName``.
- :beta:`Stochastic Integration`: :ref:`dragDynamicEffector` now clamps its optional density correction so the density used for drag is never negative (a multiplicative correction state can, under an explicit integrator, momentarily make ``1 + correction`` negative).
- :beta:`Stochastic Integration`: The :ref:`scenarioStochasticDrag` and :ref:`scenarioStochasticDragSpacecraft` examples take a ``useIgbm`` option to model the stochastic density with the multiplicative IGBM process instead of the additive Ornstein-Uhlenbeck correction.
